Identity Theft occurs when a criminal uses your identity to commit fraud.  I’m sure you’ve all seen headlines about massive data breaches.  They lead to identity theft.

If a criminal manages to get your personal data the most common thing they do is open accounts in your name.  Since lots of data about people is floating around in cyberspace this is a very common problem.  Fortunately there are ways you can block people from opening accounts in your name, that we’ll discuss later in this talk.

By far the most common way criminals commit identity theft is caused by password reuse.   That’s when you use the same password for multiple accounts.   Re-using passwords is bad because if a criminal gets your password from one site the first thing they do is try it in as many places as possible to see if it works.  That’s a problem if you use the same password for facebook, and for your bank because if facebook gets hacked again the bad guys have your password for your bank.  So we’ll discuss ways to stop password re-use.

A new and potent form of Identity Theft is SIM Swapping.   That’s when someone takes control of your cell phone number and uses it to impersonate you.  Even worst a criminal with control of your mobile phone number can intercept those two-factor-authentication codes your bank sends you to get access to your accounts.   Again I’ll show you how to block this.

I mentioned data brokers a little earlier.   Let me rant a bit about them and the current lack of privacy laws.  We've all heard about HIPPA Laws.  HIPPA is designed to protect your personal data when you're working with the medical profession.  However, did you know that HIPPA only covers “covered entities” such as hospitals, doctor offices, clinics and health insurance providers.   There is currently no Federal laws that govern what data brokers can collect and sell.  They are compleatly un-regulated and are free to buy and sell anything including information that would be covered by HIPPA in the medical world.   There are a few state laws, such as the Colorado Privacy Act, but they aren’t having much practical impact yet.  Hackers don’t care either way.  They don't follow laws.  They scoop up everything they can to perpetrate their crimes and I believe the data broker industry shares responsibility for this problem.

